Israel is pushing on with its military
operation in Rafa in defiance of
international condemnation and an order
from the international court of justice
it struck the alasi camp in the south of
Gaza on Tuesday the Hamas run Health
Ministry says at least 21 people were
killed in the area designated by Israel
as a humanitarian Zone the Israeli Army
denied hitting the area adding that it
is targeting Hamas militants there are
also reports of Israel tanks in the
center of Rafa this after 45
Palestinians were reportedly killed in a
separate strike on a refugee camp on
Sunday Israel's prime minister called it
a tragic
mistake and we can now bring in Sam Rose
he's the director of planning at unra
and joins us from Rafa now um Sam you're
on the line there with us we're getting
reports that Israeli forces have reached
the heart of Rafa what can you tell us
about the situation there
absolutely look we thought the situation
was bad yesterday when the uh the
horrific incident involving the strikes
on on attented Camp uh inside Raa took
place but over the past 24 hours
bombardments have continued that they've
intensified and we understand from our
staff and other people on the ground
that indeed Israeli troops have pushed
further into the center of of RA I've
not seen them myself but those the
reports that we're hearing what I can
tell you without any doubt is that the
bombardments have intensified and
intensified in areas to the west of Raa
including on the coast where I am right
now gazin officials say more than 20
people have been killed in an Israeli
strike on a displacement camp near Rafa
today do you have any independent
information to support that
claim I don't know I mean I'm in my
residence it's dark now so we're not
able to go out heard the same stories
I've heard the same reports it certainly
wouldn't surprise me if if if they were
true given the bombardments that we're
hearing but no I can't independently
verify it at this time now knowing what
you know is there any place left in Gaza
that is
safe no absolutely not we've been saying
this it's become a bit of a cliche over
the past eight months but it's uh I mean
it's a death sentence for Palestinians
who are constantly forcibly displaced
from one location to another location to
another location we've lost countless
how many times many of our staff members
have been displaced the women children
the civilians horrifically killed in the
incident a couple of nights ago have
been forcibly displaced from other other
parts of of Gaza they were an authentic
camp that they believed to be saved but
like many people in Gaza they go to bed
every night Under the Stars not sure
whether or not they're going to wake up
in the morning we're almost eight months
into this war much if not most of Gaza
you know the situation a lot better than
than we can grasp it here has been
reduced to Rubble you know hundreds of
thousands you mentioned it there have
been displaced over and over again
you've been in touch with people there
you've been trying to provide aid for
them what's the most common questions
you get when you you talk to Goins who
are trapped
there I mean people say all all sorts of
things a few weeks ago when we go to the
north of Gaza people would would want
food but the most common refrain that we
hear from from everyone is just stop the
war stop the war stop the war the the
the people of Gaza can't understand why
or how the world can witness every day
what's happening to them these scenes of
of Bloodshed and horror and brutality
being played out on mobile phones media
and social media around the world they
can't understand how the world can see
this going on and and yet it's powerless
or unable to do anything about it so
they feel a real sense of Abandonment
from the International Community and a
real sense of hopelessness for their
situation is there anything you can tell
them to provide some sort of comfort
when they come to you with with that
kind of you know
desperation no I mean we can provide
some kind of
Sucker uh on on a very human level on on
an individual level we spend a lot of
time talking to our staff members they
up that we them up but all that we can
do when people come to us in those
situations is be be very human with them
and give them a bit of bit of human
contact reassure them that we do care
that the world does care but in terms of
material support in terms of real
assistance no we're powerless to stop
that and we're very regretful of the
fact that we do appear to be powerless
to to stop this so the people of Gaza
I'm a representative of the United
Nations my organization is a United
Nations organization and people struggle
to understand how it is that the United
Nations this this uh famed and this
acclaimed and this important and aere
international body appears completely
powerless in the face of of such a
brutal conflict that's that's you know
that's grabbing the of the world but
it's it's such a small Geographic space
that was Sam Rose director of planning
at unra thank you so much for your time
and and please be
safe thank
you during a state visit between France
and Germany in M German Chancellor Olaf
schz weighed in on Israel's offensive in
Rafa
is isra needs to abide by international
law it needs to allow humanitarian
support for the people suffering in Gaza
it's a responsibility of Israel to
ensure that necessary Aid is
delivered yesterday we heard of a
terrible tragic attack in Rafa a refugee
camp was hit many people
died this case shows once again why
Germany and so many other states have
been against a major ground offensive in
Rafa because there isn't sufficient
protection of civilians and it's not
possible yesterday's incident clearly
shows
this French president Emmanuel MC also
reacted to the recent attacks by Israel
in
Rafa the situation in Rafa is extremely
worrying and as I already said yesterday
the Israeli operations in Rafa must end
we must stand by Palestinian
civilians the international court of
justice has already called on Israel to
stop its operation in Rafa immediately
to protect
civilians our position has been clear
right from the start we have condemned
in the strongest possible terms the
Hamas attacks we support Israel's right
to defend
itself but we need to ensure its
response in Gaza is in line with
international
law corespondent in Jerusalem Rebecca
wrs as following the developments for us
Rebecca what can you tell us about the
situation ation in ruer right
now well Anya we know that the Israeli
military continued their operation in
ruffa overnight as well as along the
adelfia corridor that's a strap a scrap
of land between uh Egypt and Gaza and
it's a a key position for the Israelis
we also had reports in the early hours
this morning that air strikes uh had
begun in the rougher area and we also
had reports this afternoon uh that air
strikes were also targeting the almaas
uh Elma wasi are area it's west of Rafa
and it's where many uh civilians have
gone to take shelter we were hearing
from the gazen health Ministry uh Health
Ministry rather reports of around 20
dead though we have not obviously been
able to confirm those numbers and we've
heard no word from the israelian
military on that uh latest strike we do
know as you were saying uh in your lead
and we have been getting reports also uh
of tanks in the center of Rafa uh so we
we also haven't heard from the Israeli
military on that point but we've been
getting eyewitness accounts of tanks in
the center of Rafa and we've seen some
images from the aler network that appear
to show or alleged to show these tanks
reportedly in the center of the city now
the question uh regarding that is of
course going to be around whether or not
tanks in the center of ruer constitutes
uh what's known as a full scale
incursion of that City and that's
something that was a red line by the US
prior uh to the attack on Rafa that's
something that they said that they
wouldn't get behind that they wouldn't
support and they urged Israel to go for
these more targeted and small a smaller
operations so whether or not the
position from the US will change now of
course is a big question on the lips of
many now the Israeli military has given
an update on its uh investigation into
the air strike on Rafa on Sunday uh more
than 40 civilians were killed in that
what did the uh Israeli military say in
that update
yeah well a little while ago we heard
from the senior military spokesman
Daniel hagari he came out with
information from a preliminary
investigation he said that uh that in
fact this strike was carried out 1.7
kilometers from the so-called safe Zone
there was conjecture and questions as to
whether or not this strike uh that
happened on Sunday sparking this huge uh
fire and killing as you say some 40 more
than 40 people was within that
designated safe area now he says that
this preliminary investigation proves
that it wasn't he said that small
Munitions were used the smallest that
they're able to fire from these Jets
were used and that those Munitions were
not able or wouldn't have been able to
spark the kind of fire that we saw in
the aftermath so suggesting that the
strike potentially led to to something
else exploding and then sparking uh that
fire that we saw um he he suggested or
he said as one of the possible options
might be that there was a Hamas weapons
uh Depot nearby and perhaps that caught
fire though they offered no evidence for
that and they said the investigation of
course is ongoing Rebecca RS reporting
from Jerusalem Rebecca thank you so
much now US President Joe Biden had
previously said that attacks on
populated areas in Rafa would be a red
line for him I asked Ian Bremer
president of the us-based
Pol political risk consultancy EUR
raazia group if that red line had been
crossed it's pretty clear uh that that
red line uh is being routinely crossed
uh even if uh not as soundly or strongly
uh as as prime minister Natan yahu had
said it would uh and and the point is
that the United States isn't doing very
much about it this is America's most
important Ally in the Middle East Biden
has both privately and publicly warned
the Minister and the entire War cabinet
in Israel to uh support a two-state
solution they refuse it uh to allow more
humanitarian Aid in they've refused it
to be much more careful about the
civilian casualties that they are
allowing even if they're not directly
targeting they've refused to do that um
and now we see them proceeding with
these bombings um into Rafa and whether
or not the Prime Minister refers to it
as a mistake uh or the the point is that
the United States looks incredibly weak
um in in being
incapable um of of restraining um it's
much less powerful uh and longstanding
Ally of the Israelis well what are
Biden's options at this point Biden had
threatened to suspend weapons deliveries
to Israel do you see a scenario emerging
where the US would actually cut back
support to its
Ally there have been some uh suspensions
uh of of military shipments we've seen a
little bit of that it certainly would
not be in any circumstance cutting off
the majority of Israeli defensive Aid
that's well over $3 billion a year in
addition um to the over 10 billion that
was just approved uh in the in the
recent bipartisan uh legislative Aid and
support bill um I don't see any of that
I see the possibility of cutting off
some offensive Weaponry for a period of
time uh it certainly would not make
Biden's Democratic supporters feel like
he was pressuring or constraining Israel
uh meanwhile it makes the Republicans
and of course former president Trump uh
be able to say that he's not being the
strong strident Ally to Israel that he
should be Biden is in no man's land on
this issue he's making nobody happy um
and this is of course only a few months
before a general election in the United
States right what are where do you see
the risks in that election that is just
looming as as you
say um well I mean the risks for the
Middle
East are that uh you know the the United
States is uh not seen as an effective
actor um on the ground is not able uh to
to push forward policies that its Gulf
allies certainly want I mean Biden has
spent a lot of time trying to get an
agreement with the Saudis that's all but
in but you have to have a two-state
solution that the Israeli government
again America's top Ally refuses to
support now if Trump comes in and his
president um he's going to be just as
Pro Zionist as Biden um but I I it's
hard to imagine in this environment that
any American president is going to be
effective uh in bringing this war to an
end